---
layout: page
title: Teaching
permalink: /Teaching/
---
#### Teaching: 

#### Professional Summary
During my professional development I have had the opportunity of serving in many teaching positions. As an undergraduate student, I was offered the position of Supplemental Instructor. In this position I provided sessions and aided students from three different courses in which I was the sole supplemental instructor. For these courses I was selected by the instructing professors to help during and outside class. The sessions conducted were regularly attended by students. As a note, students that would attend my sessions several times told me that they enjoyed the way in which I explained concepts and ideas. For instance, a student once mentioned “I am really glad I came to the session because now I feel much more confident that I will succeed in class.” This opened my eyes to what I now see as a calling and as the main drive behind becoming a professor; being able to help students as they progress in their academic life. As a graduate student I occupied the positions of Research Assistant, Teaching Assistant, and Instructor. My devotion to being a good professor has encouraged me to develop my skills over the years and I have been able to do this by continually attending teaching trainings.
#### Teaching Philosophy 
I believe students need to feel that they too have the ability of becoming experts in their area. They need to feel constant support from both their peers and professors and should be encouraged to always go a step further. For instance, during class, I always let students know that questions are encouraged and that they should not shy away from sharing their opinion. When I do meet students that are struggling, I make sure to convey to them that the classroom is a place in where they can feel confident that their effort will be valued. I find that students appreciate when the professor can relate the course content with current issues that they may be going through or issues at the national spotlight. For this reason, I make sure to incorporate different types of multimedia into my courses. An example of this is when I use short videos on Supreme Court cases. I find that students enjoy listening to cases when they can directly relate to their life. For this reason, I encourage students to think about themselves as either the plaintiffs or the defendants. This encourages them to look at court cases as situations to which they can connect. Another technique which I also use is to group students in teams and have them argue a case. One side of the classroom becomes the defendant and the other becomes the plaintiff. While yet another group will pretend to be the Supreme Court. In my experience, student really enjoy this exercise.
#### Personal Interest
Over the last years my interest has solidified around the idea that diversity in the classroom is a very valuable asset. When classrooms are composed by students with different backgrounds, ethnicities, cultures, and religions I see this as a value added to the discussions that can take place. This is especially true when we are discussing highly theoretical questions that can be answered in multiple manners. Having diversity in the classroom allows students to find solutions to constitutional conundrums but also allows them to become more sensible to a changing America. For instance, I like to bring examples from different countries and regions of the world when talking about important topics of civil liberties such as religion, speech, gender, and race. This allows students to compare and contrast their experiences with those lived outside
the US. I also find that students like to hear anecdotes from other countries. I see my position as an instructor as one of great responsibility

February 2022
